I have to say it, if you're building
a JavaScript heavy application,
you have to use semantic HTML.
It's kind of some of the worst
offenders I've seen.
Just like when everything can be a div,
it will be a div.
But we can do better.
We have spent so
much time already talking about semantics
that you should already have some ideas.
And here's another reason.
It's more pragmatic to use HTML because
you don't have to recreate everything.
It's like saves time and money,
and who doesn't love that?
The select element can do a lot, probably
more features than we even realize.
The button element is perfect example
of something that's powerful and
simple as well.
So we want to create structure and
use the right element for the job, so
just another plug on checking MDN,
even when you're writing components.
I mean, even more so, so
that those components bake in things that
are accessible, so we should use headings,
landmarks, lists, figures, data tables for
tabular data, not for layout [LAUGH] and
more to add semantic structure.
So this is essential for
users of assistive technologies
using buttons and links.
So here's the call out for buttons.
This means toggling UI components and
being part of forms.
Links are for navigation and they need
an href attribute to be accessible or
reachable, and
there's plenty of other elements.
So as tech leads, we wanna encourage
our teammates to learn about HTML and
use it to its fullest potential.
It's kind of like a teaching
moment that we can say hey,
is there a better element for that?
I don't actually know.
Let's do some research real quick.
Let's go look at MDN and see,
is there an attribute that
would really help out for this?
This is a read-only form control.
Let's make it into a native input
instead of some custom thing.
So that's a good kind of a gentle
push in the right direction and
when you are a tech lead.
And then keep that
rendered output in mind.
What are all these components
rendering when they all come together?
Are there a bunch of wrapper elements
that are adding non-standard attributes?
React does complain about those luckily,
but we want to kind of check every so
often to make sure our
lists are well-formed, and
they don't have a bunch of extra stuff
that doesn't make standard HTML happy.
And we can do that because just by
checking our source, running acts, and
then flipping over to the dev tool side or
the element inspector side and
just kinda like do a little
health check of your markup.
And make sure you understand ARIA before
using it, so one more plug for that.
Just it's so easy to slap it on there.
And if you don't have
the workflow to test it,
that's how really broken things can
ship when we don't even know about it.
So, yeah, and
there isn't always great support.
So we looked at ARIA, or
the allysupport.io, A11Y.
It is pretty effective at at least
sharing if things are not well supported.
There are some ARIA attributes
that were proposed but
never really went anywhere
like ARIA grabbed.
There were some drag and drop proposals
for ARIA that just never went anywhere.
But if you didn't ever look it up,
you might just go, yeah,
I'm just going to add
ARIA grab onto stuff,
and it's really just kind of pointless
because it doesn't do anything.
It might not hurt anything, but we don't
want to just use it and hope for the best.
So if you can use,
this is very important, actually.
The rules of ARIA,
share these with your coworkers.
If you're really trying to convince
someone off the ledge of those putting
ARIA on everything, the rules of ARIA,
I did not come up with these myself.
They are from the W3C and
one of their kind of supporting
non-normative documents.
But that just means it's not as
legally binding as things like
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
But they say, great advice,
if you can use a native HTML element or
attribute with the semantics and
behavior you require already built in,
instead of repurposing an element and
adding an ARIA role, state,
or property and
making it accessible, then do so.
Do not change some native semantics
unless you really have to.
So that's like if we talked
over the break about whether to
mark up a sidebar with a nav element or
a list.
I said use both because the nav
element will be a landmark, and
then the list its purpose
is to group lists of items.
So they have different purposes, and
if we use both elements then they can
each keep their respective roles.
Another example would be
the ARIA live attributes.
Those exist so that you can put them
on things that already have roles.
Because there's role status.
That does the same thing,
but it would have to replace a role
when an element already has one.
So the third rule, all interactive ARIA
controls must be usable with the keyboard.
That's a pretty good one.
Number 4,
do not use role of presentation or
ARIA hidden true on a focusable element.
So that creates those ghost controls that
we talked about a little bit earlier with
ARIA hidden, that pitfall.
We tend to use inert to get around that,
to make sure we're not missing anything.
And then, number five 5, all interactive
elements must have an accessible name.
Hey, we know that one.
[LAUGH] I don't normally just read stuff
off the screen, but rules are rules.
[LAUGH] So what to look for
in a framework?
This is a question that you had earlier.
When you're choosing a Javascript
framework or a library like React, Vue,
Svelte, whatever happens to pop up,
we have new frameworks all the time.
There are some things to look for
when it comes to accessibility.
Support for semantic HTML and
ARIA, does it get in your way?
Is it difficult to do the right thing?
Most of the libraries have
gotten pretty good at this.
They don't get in your way too much.
But they don't necessarily discourage you
from doing anti-patterns like putting
click events on div buttons and
things, cuz they don't really know.
It's hard for them to tell.
But just make sure that you
can write accessible HTML.
The routing libraries, does the routing
library give you any hooks for
accessibility?
Do they have accessibility documentation?
Is there a way to do it?
We talked a lot about that.
Is there documentation and community
around the framework for accessibility?
If you do a kind of gut check in
their issue list on GitHub, or
I guess that's mostly were open sources.
But, if you go through their issues and
search for accessibility,
how many issues are open?
Have they closed some?
Have they been nice about it?
What's the culture?
You can kind of do a little
bit of investigating.
Have things languished for a long time?
And then are there testing tools?
It's really helpful to be able to have
all the testing tools at your disposal.
In React, we're pretty blessed.
We have a lot of great testing tools.
There's others,
like testing library has flavors for
more than just React, so that's cool.
But then, kind of regardless,
like, think like a user.
They're not gonna care
how something's built.
They're gonna care if it works or not.
So the rendered output
is what's important.